First session:
--- Building a Digital Twin of the German Rail Network to Deliver Next-Generation Railway Systems
Jose Minguez
Senior Software Developer, DB Systel GmbH
---

With a digital twin we can get precious data of special cases for AI models we could not get otherwise.
Such as someone falling on the train tracks or an object falling on te tracks.

4 parts:
eviromental modelling, agent modelling, train physics, data for ai

Works with sensors4rails, project to monitor the surroundings and thus supply the data
needed for the modelling. With the use of Nvidia tools and extension they can convert
this data to modelling. Way to in detail explanation of the modelling physics.
Human behaviour is the next step in the project.



Second session:
---(panel of 4)  Accelerating AV Development with AI, Simulation, and Synthetic Data
Norm Marks (Worldwide Field Ops)
Vice President, Automotive Enterprise, NVIDIA

Ödgärd Andersson
CEO, Zenseact  


Albert Meixner
Head of Software, Nuro

Annie Lien
Deputy CEO, VinAi
---
Q. what are the biggest challenges in our field (automated driving)
A. we have access to more robust systems so they can finally start with actual results. They can now bring
safety to every mile driven with the systems.

20% of severe accidents could be avoided with this technology. This is comparable to the invention of the
seatbelt. Humans have the tendency to overtrust systems, for example sleeping behind the wheel. The use 
of the systems need to be improved too, not just the systems. If we can get the systems to this point 
being stuck in traffic is not nearly as bad. If you can work, check your emails, watch netflix inside 
your car without issues transport is not nearly as much of a time loss. They never want to be fully 
reliant on just 1 system. There needs to be some form of stability and redundancy in a non AI system.
A subscription business model will be needed since software needs updates.
New technologies and systems always cost a lot, but once optimised go down in cost a lot. Airbags were
also really expensive to produce in the beginning.

Third session:
---Connect with the Experts: AR and VR in Omniverse 
NVIDIA STAFF
---
Raytracing is very important in XR, because our brains need it. Omniverse is different from game engins
and works far better with XR and VR. Their structure is better fitted for these technologies.
They are making a streaming client for oculus.
Why would you use omniverse? 








