Pamela Capriglione:
Teacher for autistic kids + 2 autistic siblings.
A lot of outdated practices for autistic kids.

NeuroBlocs: supports learning and wellbeing.

What is anxiety?
Everyone has it. How we manage it differs for everyone. More gentle strategies are needed.
2 types of anxiety. Positive and negative anxiety. Negative prevents people from doing what they want,
like going to school or making friends. We need to change the enviroment and do a gentle approach.
Nearly 10% of children have too much anxiety. Closely linked to depression.

These statistics are not improving due to google and it giving outdated methods and advice.
Fitting in is different from being accepted. Fitting in is pleasing the people, not being yourself.
Change enviroment so someone is accepted and does not have to fit in.

Worries over things out of our control. Just telling them DW you cannot change it does not help.

Being anxious keeps us safe? Yes, but too much sometimes.

People don't go back to an enviroment where they are not respected.
Kids often think they are the only one with anxiety which makes them feel even worse. 
We need to talk about our problems against someone who listens to vent our anxiety. There is trust 
needed for this, since people often do not want to burden other people with their problems.
Explaining how the brain works can help them understand anxiety is completely normal.
Our brain is wired to keep us alive, thus always looking for danger constantly.

Just keep trying methods until you find a good method.

Play is important for learning and teaching. It improves cognitive, physical and social skills.
We need more practical play for reducing anxiety. This goes for adults too, take football for example.

When taking out legos they cannot wait to be creative and just start without any explanation. What 
they build with legos can also reflect their inner thoughts. Give children enough play opportunities.
Successfully building with lego can bring a great sence of relief in people. Being praised for small
achievement such as building something with lego can help build confidence.

Classic techniques like Gross Motor skills such as walking or running, breathing exercise, group work and 
emotion work can be more fun when lego is incorporated which brings great benefit.


==> Was far more focused on autisic children than anxiety and lego in general, still nice to know