Astrasenica is involved and thanked for input. The Royal Society. Is in the UK. Clearly a lot of important
people spoke and were in the audience. A lot of difficult topic, a very high level event.
A lot of short explenations but at a very high level, sometimes a bit too high.

around 650 participants

BIOLOGY

1st speaker: Dr Anne Phelan (Biology and Chemistry in relation to disease)
AI helps fundamentals of disease research. Helps organize data and show paterns.
All data has issues, messy, incomplete, contradictary and AI helps with those issues.
"We are drowning in a sea of data, but starving for knowledge"
It is a continues progress not a insta wonder solution. Not a single eureka moment but exponentially
more complicated queries of data. On the brink of a revolution on how we can use data.

2nd speaker: Dr Imran Haque(Data Scientist)
Mapping in biology is a big challange. Decades of research of breast cancer in now possible as a 
single querie. This is not new research but a data restructured with the help of AI. The biology
landscape is far clearer. The most important part of biological maps is relations. Some possible 
genes that can be a solution can be a danger to health in combination with another specific gene.
So we want a map that explains the relation of everything with everything. Humans cannot compare
tens of thousends of dna with other dna, but an AI can. The main problem now is that this data 
needs to be standerdised. They are solving that now. This way we can look at what things actually
do, unlike what they look like they do which may be misleading.
10 years ago it was impossible for AI to tell an animal for an image, which is now possible. This
is the same in biology. AI can now read patterns in cells and dna and conclude what it can do or 
what it is.
They now have publicised a big dataset for biology that was made by 1 AI protocol which is a big 
step forward.

3rd speaker: Professor Walter Kolch
More cancer, but not much progress in healing. The problem is applying the right drug to the right 
patient. The drugs are strong enough, but which one to use when is the hard part. Human body is
more complicated than a rocket, you have a blueprint for it, but that is not the case for the body.
We can use AI for this. Neuroblastoma is rare child cancer with 50% lethality rate. We need to find
which children are susceptible to this cancer. Thanks to AI this was possible. Not only do we 
understand what defines who needs to watch out, we also learned why. ex. Some drugs get bounced back
by certain patients. Now individualised treatment is possible through AI and we can administer 
specific drug combinations to each patient.

Q&A:
The AI result is not the final conclusion but something that highlights paterns and possible causes.
Getting better and more consistent data is the next frontier.
There are good pockets of data, but not all data is easily unifyable.

CHEMISTRY:

1st speaker: Professor Andreas Bender
Amount of data is not the most important part. It is small critical data that is important.
Quite confusing.
How do we go from technology potential to application. How do we deal with labels? What is toxic?
Water can be toxic if consumed excessively, so is water toxic? This can be much more complicated
in deeper chemistry labels. It is all conditional. This is the problem with a binairy model. It is 
important to take context into account. Chemical space is high dimensional, more than 3d which is 
another challange. The fundament of everything is a question. A question generated research which
generated data, what the fuel is of AI. So to improve the result of AI we should focus on improving
the question.

2nd speaker: Dr Lucy Colwell
AI to help protein sequences with what those can do. This was used for research on COVID. What proteins
could they bind to each other and bind to targets to help find a cure. There was also a big progress
on the efficiency on the order of sequences. They found sequences that seemed unintuitive to humans
worked really well against omicron for example. They really highlight the potential of working 
sequence based. Because AI works with patterns it works really well with sequences. Mixing AI models
also improved results a lot compared to using any model on its own. What if we find a new class of
sequence with new functionality for the first time. AI can generate captions for images, so we can
use this to generate sequence names. The problem is that it takes a lot of effort to confirm this name
, since it is easy to verify a picture, but not so much for protein sequences. Not every sequence can 
be manually verified. It was very rare that the model gave the wrong name. The model has learned some
text and what relation it holds to the protein sequences.

3rd speaker: Professor Charlotte Deane MBE
How do we use machine learning? A lot of data is made for humans and not for AI, which is only 
recently being developed. You can only use similar data. Not all data on proteins is aplicable to every 
protein and vice versa. We want a general model, not a model for every type. We often do not check if
models learn things outside what we thought them. We check if they learned what we thought them
which is often a problem with this kind of research. If you look at what it actually learned it is 
often a big maybe. Make use of synthetic data. Custom made near perfect data and look at what the
model can do with it. They found it was able to tell and make use of all the most important parts.
We need to make sure to improve on our method working and keep doing best practises.

Q&A:
It is important to come together as a comunity and improve together. Do not only improve the use of AI
in biology and split it apart from chemistry but improve all fields involved.

MEDICINE:

1st speaker: Aditya Nori
It is amazing how much it the use of AI changed in a few months. ex. chatGPT. Medicine is in a bad spot.
Demand grows while but supply cannot keep up or is even diminishing. AI can help with this but we need 
to be careful. We need AI to be safe and transparent. AI is important for cancer treatment and accalerate
treatment. AI can mark tumors on scans faster reducing the time by several hours per treatment. They are 
currently expanding the use of AI for this. Open source technology to support accessebility. There are 
also AI tools to help patients get the right treatment and drugs with a lot less human error and higher
accuracy.

2nd speaker: Dr Kim Branson
Disease is a system level property. We know what water is but it hard  to calculate how water will splash
if we drop something in it. Last 3 years AI  has improved the medicine a lot. With more complicated AI
computations we have a whole new dimension to discover. We used to look at a 2d patch under the 
microscope, which we can now use a 3d model for that AI can use. We can simulate more complicated
behaviour and look at things from a whole different angle and we can measure more things. AI is the
glue holding it all together. We need to make better models and bridging models to close the gap
to actual application. Make models for complicated actual use, which isnt possible yet due to the
body being to complex, but reduce the scope to make it possible. Counter it with a simple question like
, "will chemotherapy save the patient?" and then simulate on the highest level with a limited scope.
When you do something is also important. If you light a match and start a fire, dowsing the match will
not stop the fire. Seeing something in motion can help to understand. Superficial symptoms do not always
corrolate to the same cause or solution. AI can help with What, When, How and Who to intervene on.

3rd speaker: Professor Daphne Koller
Many complex diseases remain opaque because human biology is far to complex. We need to produce high
level data for machine learning, that it can do what we cant. They made insitro. They make data from
cellular and clinical data. With this data they can define disease far better. You have diseases that 
have high genetic clarity, and others that dont, but they are often more common and so we have more
clinical data. You also have the combination of both. More diseases are moving to the center between
the two.
They have access to high quality clinical data which helped them a lot. They do need to overlay it with 
genetic data to come to novel conclusions. They can then deepfake several scenarios once you have 
sufficient data. TSC is a somewhat rare disease with only 1 drug with complications in 50% of 
patients. They were able to discover multiple drugs to relieve some symptoms.

Q&A:
The data belongs to the hospitals.
The goals is to augment clinitians, not to replace them.














